Skills

**Languages:** Python, R, SQL, Bash\
**Tools:** Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn, NumPy, Keras, PySpark,
Scikit-learn, Jupyter, Github, Shiny, Flask, BigQuery, Snakemake, MySQL,
Postgres, AWS, Ansible, Openstack, Heroku, Docker and familiarity with
Kubernetes\
**Machine Learning:** Data wrangling, Feature engineering, Regression,
Classification, Clustering, Decision Trees, Ensemble methods,
Convolutional Neural Networks, Recurrent Neural Networks, NLP,
Recommendation systems\
**Techniques:** DevOps, Hadoop, HPC, GPU and distributed computing

\vspace{-7pt}
Experience -1pt

\vspace{-3pt}
Senior Data Scientist, Greenlight Biosciences, NC Jan 2020 - Present

\vspace{-3pt}
Delivering machine learning models, and **data-driven** insights, that
will drive the company's value creation.

Next-Generation Sequencing analysis of the genomic **Big data** to help
deliver high-quality targets for **RNAi**.

Setting up the computational infrastructure that meets the demands of
the **Data Science** Team.

\vspace{-7pt}
Science Informatician, CyVerse, AZ Jan 2016 - Dec 2019

\vspace{-3pt}
Optimized the process of building Bioinformatics and Data Science
software into CyVerse using **Docker**.

Developed custom Bioinformatics and computational workflows (MAKER) in
the **Jetstream** cloud for processing complex biological data in a
distributed processing environment using **Work-queue** and **Pegasus**.

Developed novel Bioinformatic pipelines (Eg. RMTA) for mining **100+
TB** of publicly available RNA-seq data.

\vspace{-7pt}
Technical Consultant, Insight Data Science, Seattle, WASept 2019 - Feb
2020

\vspace{-3pt}
Developed and delivered workshops such as Introduction to AWS for Data
Scientists, Big Data processing platforms (Hadoop and Spark), Flask web
development, ML model deployment using Heroku to Data Engineering
fellows.

\vspace{-7pt}
Data Science Fellow, Insight Data Science, Seattle, WAJune 2019 - Sept
2019

\vspace{-3pt}
Built [PlantMD](http://plantmd.onrender.com), an image-based plant
disease detection web app that can rapidly and accurately diagnose plant
diseases with **99% validation accuracy** and achieving an **ROC-AUC
score of 0.92**.

Trained and validated **Alexnet** and **VGG16** CNN architectures. Used
**(100K, 500GB)** diseased and healthy plant leaf images using using
**Keras** on **Google Collabs** GPU nodes.

Used **Docker**, **Github** and **Dockerhub** to automatically manage
building and deploying PlantMD on **AWS**.

\vspace{-7pt}
Data Science Instructor, Datacamp Jan 2019

Designed and developed course content for **Big Data Fundamentals via
PySpark** using **Apache PySpark** and its components (RDD, DataFrames,
SparkSQL and MLlib). The course has over 8000 students.

Research Associate, Oregon State University, Corvallis Jan 2015 - Dec
2015

Developed cheap and high-throughput DNA extraction and DNA library
construction protocols for structural polymorphism discovery in Populus.

\vspace{-7pt}
Postdoc Researcher, University of California, Davis Mar 2010 - Dec 2014

Detected molecular genetic markers and constructed the novel
comprehensive transcriptome assembly pipeline using Brassica rapa
RNA-Seq.

\vspace{-7pt}
PROJECTS

Automatic classification of research paper abstractsJan 2019

\vspace{-3pt}
Scraped more than **10k+** research paper abstracts from Google Scholar
using an automated custom script and separated abstracts containing the
word 'cancer' from those containing the phrase 'machine learning'.

Employed **Logistic Regression (Scikit-learn)** and **deep neural
network (Keras)** to classify research paper abstracts into 'cancer' and
'machine learning' after data cleaning using **NLTK**.

\vspace{-7pt}
ML-based non-coding RNA detectionJune 2018

\vspace{-3pt}
Used the **XGBClassifier (Scikit-learn)** to predict micropeptides to
better identify, study, and alter protein structure.

Identified **20k** micro-peptides from **10TB+** of publicly available
genome data.

\vspace{-7pt}
EDUCATION

**Ph.D. in Crop Genetics**, University of Nottingham, UK\
**M.Sc. in Biotechnology**, G.B.P.U.A.T, India\
**B.Sc. in Agriculture**, A.N.G.R.A.U, India
